Artificial intelligence is a system that provides action through technologies such as expert systems and inference engines to operate in the physical world.
Artificial Intelligence is being increasingly used in numerous fields like medical diagnosis, robots, stock trading, scientific discovery, and the automobile industry.
Artificial intelligence is a branch of computer science that aims to create intelligent machines. Artificial intelligence is the simulation of human intelligence processes by machines based on computer systems. These processes include learning, which is the acquisition of information and rules for using information, reasoning which is using rules to reach predictable or definite conclusions, and self-correction.
Artificial intelligence has emerged as a new factor of production, complementing the traditional factors of production such as labor, capital, and innovation. AI has the potential to cross the boundaries of capital and labor and open up new sources of value and growth.
Artificial Intelligence innovations in one area have positive results in another, as the industrial sectors are interdependent. Economic value is expected to be created from new goods, services, and innovations produced by AI. Beyond the economic impact, Artificial Intelligence will also have a transformative impact on larger items of Indian society. It will be improving the quality of life and access of choice to a large section of the country.
Artificial Intelligence has a huge potential to transform the socio-economic system as its impact on every industrial or service sector is undeniable. It will give a new place to the world through automation, intelligence and creation. Thus, it will make some jobs redundant, while it increases the efficiency of other jobs and will create more jobs.
The economic and social benefits of applied Artificial Intelligence (AI) are Familiar in all the countries of the world. In the area of core research in Artificial Intelligence and related technologies, universities and research institutions from the United States, China, and Japan have led the publication volume on AI research topics between 2010 and 2016.
Potential of Artificial Intelligence (AI) Governance structures for enabling all the above mandates across countries. Many countries have established dedicated public offices such as the Ministry of AI (UAE), and Artificial Intelligence and AI Council (U.K.), while Japan China has allowed existing ministries to implement artificial intelligence in their sectoral areas.
Artificial Intelligence mainly helps us in Error Reduction as the machines work in a systematic way than humans, which gives us a Higher Degree of Precession.
In daily applications like Alexa, Google Assistant, and Siri which are known as Digital Assistants, Artificial Intelligence is helping humans to lead a better life at no extra cost.
Artificial Intelligence based machines can take over Repetitive Jobs which are monotonous in nature, which expands human creativity and productivity in some other fields.
Artificial Intelligence programmed robots can perform more Laborious Hard Work than human beings, as humans are subjected to tiredness, fatigue, etc.
Artificial Intelligence systems are very expensive to develop and maintain.
As we have a limited amount of data and resources, Artificial Intelligence cannot replicate the Human Level of Intelligence.
Artificial Intelligence is Data Hungry. The more accurate data you feed during the machine learning process, the more accurate your results will be.
Expert says Artificial Intelligence can replace all Boring, Repetitive, and Labour Intensive work.
Artificial Intelligence cannot be Creative as we Humans.
The use of artificial intelligence in the workplace is expected to create 133 million new roles, but 75 million jobs could be displaced by 2022, according to the World Economic Forum (WEF) report ‘The Future of Jobs Report. This means that the development of artificial intelligence could create 58 million net new jobs in the next few years. The areas where AI will have a positive impact are:
The education industry is slowly moving towards e-learning concepts such as smart content, online education, personalized learning, and other data-driven operations that rely heavily on AI. Hence, this Artificial Intelligence industry will need to hire a lot of AI and Machine Learning experts. Apart from these, new jobs will be created in the field of the gaming industry, robotics industries, and cyber security.
Every new invention has some positive and negative aspects but we must use the positive aspects of the invention to create a better world. Some even say that artificial intelligence can destroy human civilization if it goes into the wrong hands. But still, no artificial intelligence application was created that could destroy humanity from the earth.
In this way, in the medium and long term, AI will produce better-paying jobs and enhance and develop the human resource of the country and the world.
